CREATION
==========

  Interesting base images:

  - Centos:  https://store.docker.com/images/centos, Tags: centos:7.5.1804

  - To download them locally:

  `docker pull centos:7.5.1804 # Download to get the image locally.`



MISC
==========

  docker ps # List all containers running.
  docker images -a # List all images available locally.

  CONTAINER=docker1
  #docker1 == 789682b608b34657a7bf665506c51b14463d637ea580b055e6c235d3cd13f351

  docker run ${IMAGE}  # Create a container from image.
  docker container start ${CONTAINER} # Start an already existing container.
  docker exec -it ${CONTAINER} bash   # Start bash session in container.
  docker exec -it ${CONTAINER} --user <user> bash   # Start bash session as <user>
  docker inspect "${CONTAINER}"

  docker info # Shows all sort of info about the docker eco-system on the host.

  docker -f logs nifi # Equivalent of a tail, but it scrolls from the beginning 


  # Enable / Disable docker container at host bootup.
  docker update --restart=always "${CONTAINER}" # Enable autostart at host boot.
  docker update --restart=no     "${CONTAINER}" # Disable autostart at host boot.




VOLUMES AND DATA
==========

  VOLUMES
  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

    Volumes in dockers should have been called mount points.  They are moint
    points allowing docker containers to access directories and files of the
    host.

    Volumes are a bit if a misnowmer.  Usually when VMs talks about volumes,
    it is a storage sytem that contains the root file system within the VM.
    In docker, it is not the case.



  Root
  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────


  Root directories of containers are found in Ubuntu under:

    /var/lib/docker/aufs/mnt/<uuid>

  One can copy files directly into these directory and they will show
  up immediately in the container.


  The directory where the root dirs is stored can be different depending
  on the hosts distribution.  One way to figure out where they reside is
  to use the following command:

    docker info | egrep '(Storage Driver|Root Dir)'
    Storage Driver: aufs
     Root Dir: /var/lib/docker/aufs
    Docker Root Dir: /var/lib/docker


Tools
==========

  LazyDocker
  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

    A user interface for Docker and docker-compose, with everything you need
    in one terminal window, and every command command being one keypress away,
    so you don't have to memorise commands or keep track of your containers
    across multiple terminal windows

    https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker
    https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/07/lazydocker-new-docker-and-docker.html



10 DOCKER COMMANDS YOU CAN'T LIVE WITHOUT
==========

From:  https://medium.com/the-code-review/top-10-docker-commands-you-cant-live-without-54fb6377f481

* docker ps - Lists running containers. Some useful flags include: -a / -all for all containers (default shows just running) and --quiet /-q to list just their ids (useful for when you want to get all the containers).
* docker pull - Most of your images will be created on top of a base image from the Docker Hub registry. Docker Hub contains many pre-built images that you can pull and try without needing to define and configure your own. To download a particular image, or set of images (i.e., a repository), use docker pull.
* docker build - The docker build command builds Docker images from a Dockerfile and a “context”. A build’s context is the set of files located in the specified PATH or URL. Use the -t flag to label the image, for example docker build -t my_container . with the . at the end signalling to build using the currently directory.
* docker run - Run a docker container based on an image, you can follow this on with other commands, such as -it bash to then run bash from within the container. Also see Top 10 options for docker run - a quick reference guide for the CLI command. docker run my_image -it bash
* docker logs - Use this command to display the logs of a container, you must specify a container and can use flags, such as --follow to follow the output in the logs of using the program. docker logs --follow my_container
* docker volume ls - This lists the volumes, which are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers.
* docker rm - Removes one or more containers. docker rm my_container
* docker rmi - Removes one or more images. docker rmi my_image
* docker stop - Stops one or more containers. docker stop my_container stops one container, while docker stop $(docker ps -a -q) stops all running containers. A more direct way is to use docker kill my_container, which does not attempt to shut down the process gracefully first.

Use them together, for example to clean up all your docker images and containers:

* kill all running containers with docker kill $(docker ps -q)
* delete all stopped containers with docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)
* delete all images with docker rmi $(docker images -q)

END
==========

    █ ─ Copyright Notice ───────────────────────────────────────────────────
    █
    █ Copyright 2000-2021 Hans Deragon - GPL 3.0 licence.
    █
    █ Hans Deragon (hans@deragon.biz) owns the copyright of this work.
    █
    █ It is released under the GPL 3 licence which can be found at:
    █
    █     https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html
    █
    █ ─────────────────────────────────────────────────── Copyright Notice ─
